ETC Course 9. Units and Denominations of ETC (#1084)
ethereumclassic/ethereumclassic.github.io: content/blog/20230216-ethereum-classic-course-9-the-units-and-denominations-of-ethereum-classic/index.md

The same logic applies to Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Ethereum Classic, but with different divisibility.

## The Units and Denominations of Bitcoin

![The Bitcoin units and denominations.](./bitcoin.png)

In Bitcoin, the whole unit of the currency is called bitcoin or BTC, its symbol in the market is $BTC, and it is divisible by one hundred million.

For computing and machine purposes, this small unit is the one actually used as the whole unit. Consequently the currency is denominated as follows:

1 is a Satoshi (one unit)

10 a Finney (ten)

100 a microBitcoin (one hundred)

100,000 a milliBitcoin (one hundred thousand)

1,000,000 a centiBitcoin (one million)

10,000,000 a deciBitcoin (ten million)

100,000,000 a BTC or Bitcoin (one hundred million)

Multiplying 1 satoshi by ten gives one Finney, then a microBitcoin (one hundred), a milliBitcoin (one hundred thousand), a centiBitcoin (one million), a deciBitcoin (ten million), and finally a Bitcoin (one hundred million satoshis).

The name "Satoshi" was given to this atomic unit in honor of Satoshi Nakamoto, the inventor of Bitcoin.

> For human readability, the units and denominations of Bitcoin are inverted in applications and wallets to show them as the normal whole unit of one BTC, and from there they are divisible by the quantities described above:

Reviewer: Line 61: Remove comma splice
```suggestion
For human readability, the units and denominations of Bitcoin are inverted in applications and wallets to show them as the normal whole unit of one BTC and from there are divisible by the quantities described above:
```

## The Units and Denominations of Ethereum

![The Ethereum units and denominations.](./ethereum.png)

In Ethereum, the whole unit of the currency is called ether or ETH, its symbol in the market is $ETH, and it is divisible by one quintillion, or a 1 with 18 zeros (1,000,000,000,000,000,000).

As with Bitcoin, for computing and machine purposes, this small unit is the one actually used as the whole unit. Consequently the currency is denominated as follows:

1 is a Wei (one)

1,000 a Kilowei (one thousand)

1,000,000 a Megawei (one million)

1,000,000,000 a Gigawei (one billion)

1,000,000,000,000 a Szabo (one trillion)

1,000,000,000,000,000 a Finney (one quadrillion)

1,000,000,000,000,000,000 an ETH or Ether (one quintillion)

Multiplying 1 Wei by one thousand gives a Kilowei, then a Megawei (one million), Gigawei (one billion), a Szabo (one trillion), a Finney (one quadrillion), and finally an ether (one quintillion Wei).

The name "Wei" was given to this atomic unit in honor of Wei Dai, who is the cypherpunk who had the idea of the first cryptocurrency network design in late 1998.

> As in Bitcoin, for human readability, the units and denominations of Ethereum are inverted in applications and wallets to show them as the normal whole unit of one ETH, and from there they are divisible by the quantities described above:

Reviewer: Line 105: Fix comma-splice run-on sentence
```suggestion
As in Bitcoin, for human readability, the units and denominations of Ethereum are inverted in applications and wallets to show them as the normal whole unit of one ETH. From there they are divisible by the quantities described above:
```

## The Units and Denominations of Ethereum Classic

![The Ethereum Classic units and denominations.](./ethereum-classic.png)

In Ethereum Classic, the units and denominations work the same as in Ethereum. The whole unit of the currency is called ether or ETC, its symbol in the market is $ETC, and it is divisible by one quintillion.

As ETH and BTC, for computing and machine purposes, this unit is the one actually used as the whole unit. Consequently the currency is denominated as follows:

1 is a Wei (one)

1,000 a Kilowei (one thousand)

1,000,000 a Megawei (one million)

1,000,000,000 a Gigawei (one billion)

1,000,000,000,000 a Szabo (one trillion)

1,000,000,000,000,000 a Finney (one quadrillion)

1,000,000,000,000,000,000 an ETC or Ether (one quintillion)

As seen above, the minimal atomic denomination of ETC is 1 Wei, which is one quintillionth of an ether.

Multiplying 1 Wei by one thousand gives a Kilowei, then a Megawei (one million), Gigawei (one billion), a Szabo (one trillion), a Finney (one quadrillion), and finally an ether (one quintillion Wei).

> As with Bitcoin and Ethereum, for human readability, the units and denominations of Ethereum Classic are inverted in applications and wallets to show them as the normal whole unit of one ETC, and from there they are divisible by the quantities described above:

Reviewer: Line 149: Fixed run-on sentence; Edit to reduce repetition
```suggestion
As with Bitcoin and Ethereum, for human readability, the units and denominations of Ethereum Classic are inverted in applications and wallets to show them as the normal whole unit of one ETC. As with Bitcoin and Ethereum, they are again divisible by the quantities described above:
```
